Already so is often a healthy amount of time talking about higher level things kind of setting the stage
for this course.
Why should you care about databases what are databases what's.
Well where's that fit in what sequel.
And so on.
Now it's actually time for us to really get going.
So hopefully that's a little bit exciting.
Unfortunately the first thing we have to do is install the tools install my as you will on your computers.
So I want to add a note really early on which is that in my experience installing anything can be a
pain.
And that's true for someone who is an experienced developer all the way down to a complete beginner.
It's always a potential point of friction or things can go wrong and nothing is more frustrating than
being excited to do something.
Being excited to learn something new and then have it not work or have to spend hours trying to figure
out why it's not installed correctly and what's going on in my opinion.
It's one of the worst parts of being a developer.
And then also in my experience teaching I've seen a lot of people get discouraged really quickly when
something doesn't work out.
If you're unable to install my s.
Well when you want to learn as well it might just send you in a different direction and you might end
up learning another database like sequel light that doesn't require as much setup and that's easier
to install.
So we don't want that to happen.
Nothing against sequel.
This is not a course on sequel lite.
So I just wanted to put that out there that keep in mind installing can be a pain but I'm going to do
my best to try and make it painless.
So we have three options.
The first one for installation is to install it on a PC.
So if you have a PC if you're a Windows user you can follow those instructions.
The next option is you probably guessed is that you can install it on a Mac.
So if you're following along using a Mac this should be a good choice for you.
But there's also a third option which is to install it using a service called Cloud 9.
So if you've taken my other course you may be familiar with Cloud 9.
Basically an online interactive development environment in just a couple of videos or go into some more
detail about it.
And before we go any further I just want to highlight that installing using Cloud 9 is without a doubt
the best and easiest way to get started.
And it's what I recommend that you use which is why I spent so much time drawing this little box around
it install on cloud nine.
So why is that.
Why do we recommend that you use cloud 9.
There's a couple of reasons.
The first is that it's what I'll be using in the course.
So rather than doing everything on a Mac and confusing the Windows people are doing everything on a
PC and confusing people on a Mac.
I'm going to use cloud 9 which is something that anybody can use regardless of the type of machine that
you own.
How old it is how much RAM you have what operating system that doesn't matter.
It levels the playing field.
So because I'll be using it in the course I think it makes it a lot easier for you to follow along.
Now if you're someone who's pretty confident as a developer of course feel free to install it however
you like but I highly highly recommend that you use cloud 9 at least early on because you'll be able
to follow along much much easier.
And the second reason equally important is that it's way easier for you to get help if something goes
wrong.
If you're doing a project or an exercise and something doesn't seem to be working the way you expect
or you hit a bug or you're just not sure what you did wrong you can easily share the link to your environment
through cloud 9 and post that on our discussion boards and either me or one of the teams can help you
out.
So it's way easier for you to get help if you just working on your PC or Mac and you're trying to explain
what's wrong.
You're going to have to take some screenshots you have to upload them.
You might have to copy and paste some stuff from a terminal but if you use cloud 9 and I'll show you
this when we talk about cloud 9 in more depth you can just take the link of your workspace and share
that and anyone will be able to look at your code and diagnose the problem.
And the third reason they didn't write down and this is a really important one is that installation
is basically painless.
You have to sign up for an account and that's about the worst part.
Once you're past that it's one command to get my 12 working which is pretty amazing.
So with all of that said this is my recommendation or prescription for how you should go about this
course use cloud 9 to follow along throughout the course.
So everything that I do in cloud 9 you'll be able to replicate yourself in cloud 9.
And then once we finish the course you can return back to the installation instructions and then install
it on your Mac or your PC natively.
So I'll talk about what that means.
What's the difference between installing natively versus cloud 9.
When we talk more about cloud 9 and just a little bit.
So that's my recommendation.
I highly highly recommend that you start with cloud 9 and then later on if you'd like move to working
on your PC or your Mac.
All right.
So enough about that let's get down to business.